Documentation/git-add.adoc, before:

git-add(1)
==========

NAME
----
git-add - Add file contents to the index

SYNOPSIS
--------
[synopsis]
git add [--verbose | -v] [--dry-run | -n] [--force | -f] [--interactive | -i] [--patch | -p]
	[--edit | -e] [--[no-]all | -A | --[no-]ignore-removal | [--update | -u]] [--sparse]
	[--intent-to-add | -N] [--refresh] [--ignore-errors] [--ignore-missing] [--renormalize]
	[--chmod=(+|-)x] [--pathspec-from-file=<file> [--pathspec-file-nul]]
	[--] [<pathspec>...]

DESCRIPTION
-----------
This command updates the index using the current content found in
the working tree, to prepare the content staged for the next commit.
It typically adds the current content of existing paths as a whole,
but with some options it can also be used to add content with
only part of the changes made to the working tree files applied, or
remove paths that do not exist in the working tree anymore.

The "index" holds a snapshot of the content of the working tree, and it
is this snapshot that is taken as the contents of the next commit.  Thus
after making any changes to the working tree, and before running
the commit command, you must use the `add` command to add any new or
modified files to the index.

This command can be performed multiple times before a commit.  It only
adds the content of the specified file(s) at the time the add command is
run; if you want subsequent changes included in the next commit, then
you must run `git add` again to add the new content to the index.

The `git status` command can be used to obtain a summary of which
files have changes that are staged for the next commit.

The `git add` command will not add ignored files by default.  If any
ignored files were explicitly specified on the command line, `git add`
will fail with a list of ignored files.  Ignored files reached by
directory recursion or filename globbing performed by Git (quote your
globs before the shell) will be silently ignored.  The `git add` command can
be used to add ignored files with the `-f` (force) option.

Please see linkgit:git-commit[1] for alternative ways to add content to a
commit.


OPTIONS
-------
`<pathspec>...`::
	Files to add content from.  Fileglobs (e.g. `*.c`) can
	be given to add all matching files.  Also a
	leading directory name (e.g. `dir` to add `dir/file1`
	and `dir/file2`) can be given to update the index to
	match the current state of the directory as a whole (e.g.
	specifying `dir` will record not just a file `dir/file1`
	modified in the working tree, a file `dir/file2` added to
	the working tree, but also a file `dir/file3` removed from
	the working tree). Note that older versions of Git used
	to ignore removed files; use `--no-all` option if you want
	to add modified or new files but ignore removed ones.
+
For more details about the _<pathspec>_ syntax, see the 'pathspec' entry
in linkgit:gitglossary[7].

`-n`::
`--dry-run`::
	Don't actually add the file(s), just show if they exist and/or will
	be ignored.

`-v`::
`--verbose`::
        Be verbose.

`-f`::
`--force`::
	Allow adding otherwise ignored files.

`--sparse`::
	Allow updating index entries outside of the sparse-checkout cone.
	Normally, `git add` refuses to update index entries whose paths do
	not fit within the sparse-checkout cone, since those files might
	be removed from the working tree without warning. See
	linkgit:git-sparse-checkout[1] for more details.

`-i`::
`--interactive`::
	Add modified contents in the working tree interactively to
	the index. Optional path arguments may be supplied to limit
	operation to a subset of the working tree. See ``Interactive
	mode'' for details.

`-p`::
`--patch`::
	Interactively choose hunks of patch between the index and the
	work tree and add them to the index. This gives the user a chance
	to review the difference before adding modified contents to the
	index.
+
This effectively runs `add --interactive`, but bypasses the
initial command menu and directly jumps to the `patch` subcommand.
See ``Interactive mode'' for details.

include::diff-context-options.adoc[]

`-e`::
`--edit`::
	Open the diff vs. the index in an editor and let the user
	edit it.  After the editor was closed, adjust the hunk headers
	and apply the patch to the index.
+
The intent of this option is to pick and choose lines of the patch to
apply, or even to modify the contents of lines to be staged. This can be
quicker and more flexible than using the interactive hunk selector.
However, it is easy to confuse oneself and create a patch that does not
apply to the index. See EDITING PATCHES below.

`-u`::
`--update`::
	Update the index just where it already has an entry matching
	_<pathspec>_.  This removes as well as modifies index entries to
	match the working tree, but adds no new files.
+
If no _<pathspec>_ is given when `-u` option is used, all
tracked files in the entire working tree are updated (old versions
of Git used to limit the update to the current directory and its
subdirectories).

`-A`::
`--all`::
`--no-ignore-removal`::
	Update the index not only where the working tree has a file
	matching _<pathspec>_ but also where the index already has an
	entry. This adds, modifies, and removes index entries to
	match the working tree.
+
If no _<pathspec>_ is given when `-A` option is used, all
files in the entire working tree are updated (old versions
of Git used to limit the update to the current directory and its
subdirectories).

`--no-all`::
`--ignore-removal`::
	Update the index by adding new files that are unknown to the
	index and files modified in the working tree, but ignore
	files that have been removed from the working tree.  This
	option is a no-op when no _<pathspec>_ is used.
+
This option is primarily to help users who are used to older
versions of Git, whose `git add <pathspec>...` was a synonym
for `git add --no-all <pathspec>...`, i.e. ignored removed files.

`-N`::
`--intent-to-add`::
	Record only the fact that the path will be added later. An entry
	for the path is placed in the index with no content. This is
	useful for, among other things, showing the unstaged content of
	such files with `git diff` and committing them with `git commit
	-a`.

`--refresh`::
	Don't add the file(s), but only refresh their stat()
	information in the index.

`--ignore-errors`::
	If some files could not be added because of errors indexing
	them, do not abort the operation, but continue adding the
	others. The command shall still exit with non-zero status.
	The configuration variable `add.ignoreErrors` can be set to
	true to make this the default behaviour.

`--ignore-missing`::
	This option can only be used together with `--dry-run`. By using
	this option the user can check if any of the given files would
	be ignored, no matter if they are already present in the work
	tree or not.

`--no-warn-embedded-repo`::
	By default, `git add` will warn when adding an embedded
	repository to the index without using `git submodule add` to
	create an entry in `.gitmodules`. This option will suppress the
	warning (e.g., if you are manually performing operations on
	submodules).

`--renormalize`::
	Apply the "clean" process freshly to all tracked files to
	forcibly add them again to the index.  This is useful after
	changing `core.autocrlf` configuration or the `text` attribute
	in order to correct files added with wrong _CRLF/LF_ line endings.
	This option implies `-u`. Lone CR characters are untouched, thus
	while a _CRLF_ cleans to _LF_, a _CRCRLF_ sequence is only partially
	cleaned to _CRLF_.

`--chmod=(+|-)x`::
	Override the executable bit of the added files.  The executable
	bit is only changed in the index, the files on disk are left
	unchanged.

`--pathspec-from-file=<file>`::
	Pathspec is passed in _<file>_ instead of commandline args. If
	_<file>_ is exactly `-` then standard input is used. Pathspec
	elements are separated by _LF_ or _CR/LF_. Pathspec elements can be
	quoted as explained for the configuration variable `core.quotePath`
	(see linkgit:git-config[1]). See also `--pathspec-file-nul` and
	global `--literal-pathspecs`.

`--pathspec-file-nul`::
	Only meaningful with `--pathspec-from-file`. Pathspec elements are
	separated with _NUL_ character and all other characters are taken
	literally (including newlines and quotes).

`--`::
	This option can be used to separate command-line options from
	the list of files, (useful when filenames might be mistaken
	for command-line options).


EXAMPLES
--------

* Adds content from all ++*.txt++ files under `Documentation` directory
  and its subdirectories:
+
------------
$ git add Documentation/\*.txt
------------
+
Note that the asterisk ++*++ is quoted from the shell in this
example; this lets the command include the files from
subdirectories of `Documentation/` directory.

* Considers adding content from all ++git-*.sh++ scripts:
+
------------
$ git add git-*.sh
------------
+
Because this example lets the shell expand the asterisk (i.e. you are
listing the files explicitly), it does not consider
`subdir/git-foo.sh`.

INTERACTIVE MODE
----------------
When the command enters the interactive mode, it shows the
output of the 'status' subcommand, and then goes into its
interactive command loop.

The command loop shows the list of subcommands available, and
gives a prompt "What now> ".  In general, when the prompt ends
with a single '>', you can pick only one of the choices given
and type return, like this:

------------
    *** Commands ***
      1: status       2: update       3: revert       4: add untracked
      5: patch        6: diff         7: quit         8: help
    What now> 1
------------

You also could say `s` or `sta` or `status` above as long as the
choice is unique.

The main command loop has 6 subcommands (plus help and quit).

status::

   This shows the change between `HEAD` and index (i.e. what will be
   committed if you say `git commit`), and between index and
   working tree files (i.e. what you could stage further before
   `git commit` using `git add`) for each path.  A sample output
   looks like this:
+
------------
              staged     unstaged path
     1:       binary      nothing foo.png
     2:     +403/-35        +1/-1 add-interactive.c
------------
+
It shows that `foo.png` has differences from `HEAD` (but that is
binary so line count cannot be shown) and there is no
difference between indexed copy and the working tree
version (if the working tree version were also different,
'binary' would have been shown in place of 'nothing').  The
other file, `add-interactive.c`, has 403 lines added
and 35 lines deleted if you commit what is in the index, but
working tree file has further modifications (one addition and
one deletion).

update::

   This shows the status information and issues an "Update>>"
   prompt.  When the prompt ends with double '>>', you can
   make more than one selection, concatenated with whitespace or
   comma.  Also you can say ranges.  E.g. "2-5 7,9" to choose
   2,3,4,5,7,9 from the list.  If the second number in a range is
   omitted, all remaining patches are taken.  E.g. "7-" to choose
   7,8,9 from the list.  You can say '*' to choose everything.
+
What you chose are then highlighted with '*',
like this:
+
------------
           staged     unstaged path
  1:       binary      nothing foo.png
* 2:     +403/-35        +1/-1 add-interactive.c
------------
+
To remove selection, prefix the input with `-`
like this:
+
------------
Update>> -2
------------
+
After making the selection, answer with an empty line to stage the
contents of working tree files for selected paths in the index.

revert::

  This has a very similar UI to 'update', and the staged
  information for selected paths are reverted to that of the
  HEAD version.  Reverting new paths makes them untracked.

add untracked::

  This has a very similar UI to 'update' and
  'revert', and lets you add untracked paths to the index.

patch::

  This lets you choose one path out of a 'status' like selection.
  After choosing the path, it presents the diff between the index
  and the working tree file and asks you if you want to stage
  the change of each hunk.  You can select one of the following
  options and type return:

       y - stage this hunk
       n - do not stage this hunk
       q - quit; do not stage this hunk or any of the remaining ones
       a - stage this hunk and all later hunks in the file
       d - do not stage this hunk or any of the later hunks in the file
       g - select a hunk to go to
       / - search for a hunk matching the given regex
       j - leave this hunk undecided, see next undecided hunk
       J - leave this hunk undecided, see next hunk
       k - leave this hunk undecided, see previous undecided hunk
       K - leave this hunk undecided, see previous hunk
       s - split the current hunk into smaller hunks
       e - manually edit the current hunk
       p - print the current hunk
       ? - print help
+
After deciding the fate for all hunks, if there is any hunk
that was chosen, the index is updated with the selected hunks.
+
You can omit having to type return here, by setting the configuration
variable `interactive.singleKey` to `true`.

diff::

  This lets you review what will be committed (i.e. between
  `HEAD` and index).


EDITING PATCHES
---------------

Invoking `git add -e` or selecting `e` from the interactive hunk
selector will open a patch in your editor; after the editor exits, the
result is applied to the index. You are free to make arbitrary changes
to the patch, but note that some changes may have confusing results, or
even result in a patch that cannot be applied.  If you want to abort the
operation entirely (i.e., stage nothing new in the index), simply delete
all lines of the patch. The list below describes some common things you
may see in a patch, and which editing operations make sense on them.

--
added content::

Added content is represented by lines beginning with "{plus}". You can
prevent staging any addition lines by deleting them.

removed content::

Removed content is represented by lines beginning with "-". You can
prevent staging their removal by converting the "-" to a " " (space).

modified content::

Modified content is represented by "-" lines (removing the old content)
followed by "{plus}" lines (adding the replacement content). You can
prevent staging the modification by converting "-" lines to " ", and
removing "{plus}" lines. Beware that modifying only half of the pair is
likely to introduce confusing changes to the index.
--

There are also more complex operations that can be performed. But beware
that because the patch is applied only to the index and not the working
tree, the working tree will appear to "undo" the change in the index.
For example, introducing a new line into the index that is in neither
the `HEAD` nor the working tree will stage the new line for commit, but
the line will appear to be reverted in the working tree.

Avoid using these constructs, or do so with extreme caution.

--
removing untouched content::

Content which does not differ between the index and working tree may be
shown on context lines, beginning with a " " (space).  You can stage
context lines for removal by converting the space to a "-". The
resulting working tree file will appear to re-add the content.

modifying existing content::

One can also modify context lines by staging them for removal (by
converting " " to "-") and adding a "{plus}" line with the new content.
Similarly, one can modify "{plus}" lines for existing additions or
modifications. In all cases, the new modification will appear reverted
in the working tree.

new content::

You may also add new content that does not exist in the patch; simply
add new lines, each starting with "{plus}". The addition will appear
reverted in the working tree.
--

There are also several operations which should be avoided entirely, as
they will make the patch impossible to apply:

* adding context (" ") or removal ("-") lines
* deleting context or removal lines
* modifying the contents of context or removal lines

CONFIGURATION
-------------

include::includes/cmd-config-section-all.adoc[]

:git-add: 1
include::config/add.adoc[]

SEE ALSO
--------
linkgit:git-status[1]
linkgit:git-rm[1]
linkgit:git-reset[1]
linkgit:git-mv[1]
linkgit:git-commit[1]
linkgit:git-update-index[1]

GIT
---
Part of the linkgit:git[1] suite

Commit message:

doc: git-add: clarify intro & add an example
- Add a basic example of how "git add" is normally used
- It's not technically true that you *must* use the `add` command to
  add changes before running `git commit`, because `git commit -a`
  exists. Instead say that you *can* use the `add` command.
- Mention early on that "index" is another word for "staging area",
  since Git very rarely uses the word "index" in its output
  (`git status`) uses the term "staged", and many Git users are
  unfamiliar with the term "index"
- Remove "It typically adds" (it's not clear what "typically" means),
  and instead mention that `git add -p` can be used to add
  partial contents
- Currently the introduction is somewhat repetitive ("to prepare the
  content staged for the next commit" ... "this snapshot that is taken
  as the contents of the next commit."), replace with a single sentence
  ("The "index" [...] is where Git stores the contents of the next
  commit.")

Signed-off-by: Julia Evans <julia@jvns.ca>

Documentation/git-add.adoc, after:

git-add(1)
==========

NAME
----
git-add - Add file contents to the index

SYNOPSIS
--------
[synopsis]
git add [--verbose | -v] [--dry-run | -n] [--force | -f] [--interactive | -i] [--patch | -p]
	[--edit | -e] [--[no-]all | -A | --[no-]ignore-removal | [--update | -u]] [--sparse]
	[--intent-to-add | -N] [--refresh] [--ignore-errors] [--ignore-missing] [--renormalize]
	[--chmod=(+|-)x] [--pathspec-from-file=<file> [--pathspec-file-nul]]
	[--] [<pathspec>...]

DESCRIPTION
-----------
Add contents of new or changed files to the index. The "index" (also
known as the "staging area") is what you use to prepare the contents of
the next commit.

When you run `git commit` without any other arguments, it will only
commit staged changes. For example, if you've edited `file.c` and want
to commit your changes to that file, you can run:

   git add file.c
   git commit

You can also add only part of your changes to a file with `git add -p`.

This command can be performed multiple times before a commit.  It only
adds the content of the specified file(s) at the time the add command is
run; if you want subsequent changes included in the next commit, then
you must run `git add` again to add the new content to the index.

The `git status` command can be used to obtain a summary of which
files have changes that are staged for the next commit.

The `git add` command will not add ignored files by default.  If any
ignored files were explicitly specified on the command line, `git add`
will fail with a list of ignored files.  Ignored files reached by
directory recursion or filename globbing performed by Git (quote your
globs before the shell) will be silently ignored.  The `git add` command can
be used to add ignored files with the `-f` (force) option.

Please see linkgit:git-commit[1] for alternative ways to add content to a
commit.


OPTIONS
-------
`<pathspec>...`::
	Files to add content from.  Fileglobs (e.g. `*.c`) can
	be given to add all matching files.  Also a
	leading directory name (e.g. `dir` to add `dir/file1`
	and `dir/file2`) can be given to update the index to
	match the current state of the directory as a whole (e.g.
	specifying `dir` will record not just a file `dir/file1`
	modified in the working tree, a file `dir/file2` added to
	the working tree, but also a file `dir/file3` removed from
	the working tree). Note that older versions of Git used
	to ignore removed files; use `--no-all` option if you want
	to add modified or new files but ignore removed ones.
+
For more details about the _<pathspec>_ syntax, see the 'pathspec' entry
in linkgit:gitglossary[7].

`-n`::
`--dry-run`::
	Don't actually add the file(s), just show if they exist and/or will
	be ignored.

`-v`::
`--verbose`::
        Be verbose.

`-f`::
`--force`::
	Allow adding otherwise ignored files.

`--sparse`::
	Allow updating index entries outside of the sparse-checkout cone.
	Normally, `git add` refuses to update index entries whose paths do
	not fit within the sparse-checkout cone, since those files might
	be removed from the working tree without warning. See
	linkgit:git-sparse-checkout[1] for more details.

`-i`::
`--interactive`::
	Add modified contents in the working tree interactively to
	the index. Optional path arguments may be supplied to limit
	operation to a subset of the working tree. See ``Interactive
	mode'' for details.

`-p`::
`--patch`::
	Interactively choose hunks of patch between the index and the
	work tree and add them to the index. This gives the user a chance
	to review the difference before adding modified contents to the
	index.
+
This effectively runs `add --interactive`, but bypasses the
initial command menu and directly jumps to the `patch` subcommand.
See ``Interactive mode'' for details.

include::diff-context-options.adoc[]

`-e`::
`--edit`::
	Open the diff vs. the index in an editor and let the user
	edit it.  After the editor was closed, adjust the hunk headers
	and apply the patch to the index.
+
The intent of this option is to pick and choose lines of the patch to
apply, or even to modify the contents of lines to be staged. This can be
quicker and more flexible than using the interactive hunk selector.
However, it is easy to confuse oneself and create a patch that does not
apply to the index. See EDITING PATCHES below.

`-u`::
`--update`::
	Update the index just where it already has an entry matching
	_<pathspec>_.  This removes as well as modifies index entries to
	match the working tree, but adds no new files.
+
If no _<pathspec>_ is given when `-u` option is used, all
tracked files in the entire working tree are updated (old versions
of Git used to limit the update to the current directory and its
subdirectories).

`-A`::
`--all`::
`--no-ignore-removal`::
	Update the index not only where the working tree has a file
	matching _<pathspec>_ but also where the index already has an
	entry. This adds, modifies, and removes index entries to
	match the working tree.
+
If no _<pathspec>_ is given when `-A` option is used, all
files in the entire working tree are updated (old versions
of Git used to limit the update to the current directory and its
subdirectories).

`--no-all`::
`--ignore-removal`::
	Update the index by adding new files that are unknown to the
	index and files modified in the working tree, but ignore
	files that have been removed from the working tree.  This
	option is a no-op when no _<pathspec>_ is used.
+
This option is primarily to help users who are used to older
versions of Git, whose `git add <pathspec>...` was a synonym
for `git add --no-all <pathspec>...`, i.e. ignored removed files.

`-N`::
`--intent-to-add`::
	Record only the fact that the path will be added later. An entry
	for the path is placed in the index with no content. This is
	useful for, among other things, showing the unstaged content of
	such files with `git diff` and committing them with `git commit
	-a`.

`--refresh`::
	Don't add the file(s), but only refresh their stat()
	information in the index.

`--ignore-errors`::
	If some files could not be added because of errors indexing
	them, do not abort the operation, but continue adding the
	others. The command shall still exit with non-zero status.
	The configuration variable `add.ignoreErrors` can be set to
	true to make this the default behaviour.

`--ignore-missing`::
	This option can only be used together with `--dry-run`. By using
	this option the user can check if any of the given files would
	be ignored, no matter if they are already present in the work
	tree or not.

`--no-warn-embedded-repo`::
	By default, `git add` will warn when adding an embedded
	repository to the index without using `git submodule add` to
	create an entry in `.gitmodules`. This option will suppress the
	warning (e.g., if you are manually performing operations on
	submodules).

`--renormalize`::
	Apply the "clean" process freshly to all tracked files to
	forcibly add them again to the index.  This is useful after
	changing `core.autocrlf` configuration or the `text` attribute
	in order to correct files added with wrong _CRLF/LF_ line endings.
	This option implies `-u`. Lone CR characters are untouched, thus
	while a _CRLF_ cleans to _LF_, a _CRCRLF_ sequence is only partially
	cleaned to _CRLF_.

`--chmod=(+|-)x`::
	Override the executable bit of the added files.  The executable
	bit is only changed in the index, the files on disk are left
	unchanged.

`--pathspec-from-file=<file>`::
	Pathspec is passed in _<file>_ instead of commandline args. If
	_<file>_ is exactly `-` then standard input is used. Pathspec
	elements are separated by _LF_ or _CR/LF_. Pathspec elements can be
	quoted as explained for the configuration variable `core.quotePath`
	(see linkgit:git-config[1]). See also `--pathspec-file-nul` and
	global `--literal-pathspecs`.

`--pathspec-file-nul`::
	Only meaningful with `--pathspec-from-file`. Pathspec elements are
	separated with _NUL_ character and all other characters are taken
	literally (including newlines and quotes).

`--`::
	This option can be used to separate command-line options from
	the list of files, (useful when filenames might be mistaken
	for command-line options).


EXAMPLES
--------

* Adds content from all ++*.txt++ files under `Documentation` directory
  and its subdirectories:
+
------------
$ git add Documentation/\*.txt
------------
+
Note that the asterisk ++*++ is quoted from the shell in this
example; this lets the command include the files from
subdirectories of `Documentation/` directory.

* Considers adding content from all ++git-*.sh++ scripts:
+
------------
$ git add git-*.sh
------------
+
Because this example lets the shell expand the asterisk (i.e. you are
listing the files explicitly), it does not consider
`subdir/git-foo.sh`.

INTERACTIVE MODE
----------------
When the command enters the interactive mode, it shows the
output of the 'status' subcommand, and then goes into its
interactive command loop.

The command loop shows the list of subcommands available, and
gives a prompt "What now> ".  In general, when the prompt ends
with a single '>', you can pick only one of the choices given
and type return, like this:

------------
    *** Commands ***
      1: status       2: update       3: revert       4: add untracked
      5: patch        6: diff         7: quit         8: help
    What now> 1
------------

You also could say `s` or `sta` or `status` above as long as the
choice is unique.

The main command loop has 6 subcommands (plus help and quit).

status::

   This shows the change between `HEAD` and index (i.e. what will be
   committed if you say `git commit`), and between index and
   working tree files (i.e. what you could stage further before
   `git commit` using `git add`) for each path.  A sample output
   looks like this:
+
------------
              staged     unstaged path
     1:       binary      nothing foo.png
     2:     +403/-35        +1/-1 add-interactive.c
------------
+
It shows that `foo.png` has differences from `HEAD` (but that is
binary so line count cannot be shown) and there is no
difference between indexed copy and the working tree
version (if the working tree version were also different,
'binary' would have been shown in place of 'nothing').  The
other file, `add-interactive.c`, has 403 lines added
and 35 lines deleted if you commit what is in the index, but
working tree file has further modifications (one addition and
one deletion).

update::

   This shows the status information and issues an "Update>>"
   prompt.  When the prompt ends with double '>>', you can
   make more than one selection, concatenated with whitespace or
   comma.  Also you can say ranges.  E.g. "2-5 7,9" to choose
   2,3,4,5,7,9 from the list.  If the second number in a range is
   omitted, all remaining patches are taken.  E.g. "7-" to choose
   7,8,9 from the list.  You can say '*' to choose everything.
+
What you chose are then highlighted with '*',
like this:
+
------------
           staged     unstaged path
  1:       binary      nothing foo.png
* 2:     +403/-35        +1/-1 add-interactive.c
------------
+
To remove selection, prefix the input with `-`
like this:
+
------------
Update>> -2
------------
+
After making the selection, answer with an empty line to stage the
contents of working tree files for selected paths in the index.

revert::

  This has a very similar UI to 'update', and the staged
  information for selected paths are reverted to that of the
  HEAD version.  Reverting new paths makes them untracked.

add untracked::

  This has a very similar UI to 'update' and
  'revert', and lets you add untracked paths to the index.

patch::

  This lets you choose one path out of a 'status' like selection.
  After choosing the path, it presents the diff between the index
  and the working tree file and asks you if you want to stage
  the change of each hunk.  You can select one of the following
  options and type return:

       y - stage this hunk
       n - do not stage this hunk
       q - quit; do not stage this hunk or any of the remaining ones
       a - stage this hunk and all later hunks in the file
       d - do not stage this hunk or any of the later hunks in the file
       g - select a hunk to go to
       / - search for a hunk matching the given regex
       j - leave this hunk undecided, see next undecided hunk
       J - leave this hunk undecided, see next hunk
       k - leave this hunk undecided, see previous undecided hunk
       K - leave this hunk undecided, see previous hunk
       s - split the current hunk into smaller hunks
       e - manually edit the current hunk
       p - print the current hunk
       ? - print help
+
After deciding the fate for all hunks, if there is any hunk
that was chosen, the index is updated with the selected hunks.
+
You can omit having to type return here, by setting the configuration
variable `interactive.singleKey` to `true`.

diff::

  This lets you review what will be committed (i.e. between
  `HEAD` and index).


EDITING PATCHES
---------------

Invoking `git add -e` or selecting `e` from the interactive hunk
selector will open a patch in your editor; after the editor exits, the
result is applied to the index. You are free to make arbitrary changes
to the patch, but note that some changes may have confusing results, or
even result in a patch that cannot be applied.  If you want to abort the
operation entirely (i.e., stage nothing new in the index), simply delete
all lines of the patch. The list below describes some common things you
may see in a patch, and which editing operations make sense on them.

--
added content::

Added content is represented by lines beginning with "{plus}". You can
prevent staging any addition lines by deleting them.

removed content::

Removed content is represented by lines beginning with "-". You can
prevent staging their removal by converting the "-" to a " " (space).

modified content::

Modified content is represented by "-" lines (removing the old content)
followed by "{plus}" lines (adding the replacement content). You can
prevent staging the modification by converting "-" lines to " ", and
removing "{plus}" lines. Beware that modifying only half of the pair is
likely to introduce confusing changes to the index.
--

There are also more complex operations that can be performed. But beware
that because the patch is applied only to the index and not the working
tree, the working tree will appear to "undo" the change in the index.
For example, introducing a new line into the index that is in neither
the `HEAD` nor the working tree will stage the new line for commit, but
the line will appear to be reverted in the working tree.

Avoid using these constructs, or do so with extreme caution.

--
removing untouched content::

Content which does not differ between the index and working tree may be
shown on context lines, beginning with a " " (space).  You can stage
context lines for removal by converting the space to a "-". The
resulting working tree file will appear to re-add the content.

modifying existing content::

One can also modify context lines by staging them for removal (by
converting " " to "-") and adding a "{plus}" line with the new content.
Similarly, one can modify "{plus}" lines for existing additions or
modifications. In all cases, the new modification will appear reverted
in the working tree.

new content::

You may also add new content that does not exist in the patch; simply
add new lines, each starting with "{plus}". The addition will appear
reverted in the working tree.
--

There are also several operations which should be avoided entirely, as
they will make the patch impossible to apply:

* adding context (" ") or removal ("-") lines
* deleting context or removal lines
* modifying the contents of context or removal lines

CONFIGURATION
-------------

include::includes/cmd-config-section-all.adoc[]

:git-add: 1
include::config/add.adoc[]

SEE ALSO
--------
linkgit:git-status[1]
linkgit:git-rm[1]
linkgit:git-reset[1]
linkgit:git-mv[1]
linkgit:git-commit[1]
linkgit:git-update-index[1]

GIT
---
Part of the linkgit:git[1] suite
